# AI-Powered-Skill-Gap-Analysis

## Project Objective
The purpose of this project is to try to implement a multi-agent system that allow to process user's CV and generate a personalized skill-gap analysis for the specific users. In detail, the ai agents will be able to identify the candidate explicit and implicit skills, search for the current job market demands, and compare the candidate skills and the demands to generate the skill-gap analysis that will provide beneficial feedback for candidate lack of skills.

This project will create a smart system that allow the recruiters to see the candidate's true potential that will be proven beneficial to the recruiters to handle ton of CVs

## Architectural overview

There are 4 agents and 1 tools, these four agents are using the hierarchy multi-ai agents method to specifically run the process. The multi-ai agents framework used the Langgraph with Google Gemini 2.0 flash lite as its LLM model. In a hierarchy way, below is how each AI agent works:

1. Tools 1 - Read node 
The purpose of this tools is to transform the Candidate CV's into a readable string format for further process.

2. Agent 1 - CV Parsing
It parse any important information about the candidate based on their CV. It will need the help of LLM to parse and gather the important selected candidate's information including: Candidate summary, job experience, list of skills, education, and list of projects.

3. Agent 2 - List down specialize skills
The result of agent 1 will be sent to these agent, where the LLM will create a further breakdown to the candidate's potential explicit and implicit skills. The LLM will breakdown based on the provided information from CV parsing. The explicit skills list will list down all the mentioned skills within the candidate CV, while the implicit skills will be generated by the LLM by further breakdown and gather from candidate information such as its summary, job experience, education and list of projects. The LLM will also give a prove to make recruiter believe that this is the correct option from the LLM.

4. Agent 3 - Market job analysis
In this agent, user will need to input the targeted role needed for skills comparison within their own. LLM with the help of google web search grounding will list down the needed skills based on demanded current market. The information that will be gathered here consists of job requirements information, demanded skills, and the list of technologies used in the selected role.

5. Agent 4 - Recommendation report
The result of previous agent to collect the candidate explicit and implicit skills and the current market demand will be compared. In this agent, the candidate skill gap analysis, candidate key strengths, and the plan for increasing candidate capability will be concluded by LLm by comparing both information. In this part, the markdown report will be provided as the output and the recruiter can have clear insight of candidate capability.


## Technical Requirements
1. Multi-AI Agent Frameworks: LangGraph
2. Programming Language: Python
3. Web search tools: Google Gemini Grounding Search

## Setup Environment and Install Dependencies

### 1. Create a virtual environment
```bash
python -m venv venv
```

### 2. Activate the virtual environment
#### Windows (Powershell)
```bash
.\venv\Scripts\activate
```

#### MacOS/Linux
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```

### 3. Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 4. Create an environment.env file and store the Gemini API key inside it
```bash
GEMINI_API_KEY="your_api_key_here"
```

## How to run the Application
### 1. Start the Streamlit application
Run the streamlit frontend for starting your analysis.
```bash
"""
python -m streamlit run streamlit_app.py
"""
```

### 2. Open the local URL
By default, Streamlit runs at:
```bash
"""
http://localhost:8501
"""
```

### 3. Upload your CV and fill the role
Prepare your CV in .txt format. Use the Upload file button in the web app to upload it.
After that, Enter the role you want to check (e.g., Data Scientist, Software Engineer, etc.).

### 4. Start the analysis
Click the "Analyze" button and the application will process your CV against the chosen role based on job market

### 5. Final report result
Each agent result will be presented in the streamlit with the final report can be downloaded to give user overall insights of overall analysis.